# Bachelor-Thesis: Explainable Machine Learning in the Context of Illness Detection
## Project Description
This project aims to review and examine existing explainability methods for certain illness detection by evaluating their performance on two classic datasets: the Parkinson Dataset and the Pima Indian Diabetes Dataset. Additionally, the project seeks to define evaluation metrics for assessing the quality of explanations generated by these methods. Furthermore, the study aims to adapt unsupervised learning algorithms specifically for illness detection and integrate them with explainability techniques. The ultimate goal is to provide clear and human-understandable explanations that can be practically utilized during the illness-detection decision-making process.
The main research questions guiding this study are:
1) How to measure the utility of the explanation generated
by different methods?
2) How do the explainability methods perform given dif￾ferent datasets and what could be the reason if the
performance of the methods differs?
3) Whether model-specific methods achieve better results
than model-agnostic methods?
4) Whether model-agnostic methods could be used on the
results of unsupervised learning algorithms?
5) How to improve the performance of the methods?
## Introduction
This project contains two ".ipynb" Jupiter notebook files and their dataset utilized. The "Parkinson Dataset Notebook.ipynb" utilizes the dataset "parkinson.data". The "Diabetes Dataset Notebook" utlizes the dataset "diabetes.csv".

## Prerequisites
To run the Jupyter Notebook and work with the dataset, you need to have the following software installed:

Python: Make sure you have Python installed on your system. You can download it from the official Python website: python.org.


Jupyter Notebook: Install Jupyter Notebook 

## Get Started
Load the ".ipynb" file with its corresponding dataset into the same Jupiter notebook folder and open the ".ipynb" file, run the cell you want.
